PROBLEM STATEMENT:
Finding factors and cause those influence customers to churn. Retain churn customers by taking
appropriate steps providing offers based on affecting factors. Using the data provided, this paper
aims to analyze the data to determine what variables are correlated with customer churn, if any. To
identify the people that might churn, will also be analyze.
APPROACH:
Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) is an approach to analyze data. The first and foremost task is that
the data analysis to view the data and tries to make some sense out of it. Later we figure out what
question we want to ask and how to use the available data to get the insights and all the answers that
we need from the data set. EDA helps us to
 Delve into the dataset
 Examine the relationships among the variables
 Identify the interesting observation
 Develop an initial idea of possible associations among the predictors and the target variable.
Our telecom data set consists of 20 features and 3333 records. out of which 3 objective, integer, and
float both have 8 and 1 Boolean data type.
CONCLUSION:
The telecom market is saturated and customer growth rates are low. The key focus of market players
therefore is on retention and churn control. This project explores the churn dataset to identify the
key drivers of churn and grab key insights from the dataset. The insights we have gained into the
churn data set through the use of exploratory data analysis:
 The four charge fields are linear functions of the minute fields.
 The area code field and the state field are anomalous and can be omitted.
 The correlation among the remaining predictor variables are weak, allowing us to retail
them all for any data mining model.
 Customer with the international plan tend to churn more frequently.
 Customers with four or more customer service call churn more than four times as often as do
the other customers.
 Customers with high day minutes and evening minutes tend to churn at a higher rate than do
the other customer.
There is no obvious association of churn with the variable day calls, evening calls, night calls,
international calls, night minutes, international minutes, account length or voice mail message
